Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn the bit wise OR operator
The bit wise OR operator takes equal length
binary sequence and performs bit wise OR operator
So if he have 0 and 0 then this operator
will return zero
And if we have 0 and 1 then the result
is 1 and if we have 1 and 0 then also
the result is 1
And finally if we have both the value equal to
1 then also the result will be 1
So simply saying if we have any of the bit
equal to 1 then the result is 1
So see an example take 10 and 12 and let
us perform bit wise OR operation on these numbers
But these are decimal numbers and we need to convert
it into binary numbers
And we know the binary equivalent of the decimal 10
It is equal to 1010 and for 12 it is equal
to 1100 Now we can perform bit wise OR
So take the first pair of bits which are 0
and 0 and we have the truth table and we
don't have any of the value equal to one
So we get 0 and the next pair is 1 0 So
we get 1 and next is 0 and 1
So we get 1 again and finally we have 1
and 1 so the operator will be returning a 1
and result of bit wise OR operation between 10 and 12
is 1110 which is equivalent to decimal 40
Now see the code to implement this. In the main
function we are declaring two integers A and B which
are equal to 10 and 12
Then we are calculating the output equal to A
bit wise OR B so with OR operation will be performed
and the results will be stored in output
Now we are printing the value of output which will
be equal to 40
So that's it
Now let us discuss about the application of bit wise OR
suppose we are going to design a robot car which uses
a sensor to sends the environment and update its direction
accordingly
And we have four directions backward, forward, left and right
and each bit when set to 1 can indicate to
go to a particular direction
ie., if the first bit is set, the car should
go to right direction and if the second bit is set
go to left direction and so on.
But how to enable a bit
Specifically? we can use bitwise or operator and we
can have a mask value for each case suppose
We want the car to go to left direction and
the second bit is reserved for left direction
So We can have mask value 0010 and perform bit wise OR
operation and in the result only second bit is 1
and the car will go to left direction
And if you want to go to backward that that
is the fourth bit and we can have mask value
equal to 1000. So in the result only fourth bit
is one
So let us see how a robotic car goes and see
the sensor status here first we have 0001 only
First bit is set and it indicates to go to
right So the car goes to right now only second
bit is one
So the car will go to left and so on
So this is how we can apply bit wise OR
in many areas
So that's all and thank you for watching this video